For extracting the video clips and still images from source files, the script uses ffmpeg (via ffmpeg\_python, and figuring out the best way to translate the commandline options provided to my script to ffmpeg's commandline options was a bit of a confusing hurdle. The ffmpeg option '-ss' for seeking through the data can be provided as an input option or an output option. The former is faster, but using it as an input option means that time specifiers provided in output options like -to, which specifies where in the input data to stop, to be reset, so the command `ffmpeg -i input.mp4 -ss 4 -to 10 output.mp4` will extract from 4 seconds to 10 seconds of input.mp4, but uses the slower seek, while `ffmpeg -ss 4 -i input.mp4 -to 10 output.mp4` will use the faster seek, but will extract a clip from 4 seconds to 4 + 10 seconds, because the input that -to is referring to starts at 4 seconds into the original video. A '-copyts' option is available to keep the timestamp values from the input, but this results in weird behavior when playing the output videos. The solution I settled on was to subtract the end time from the start time for each video clip to get a duration to use with ffmpeg's '-t' option, instead of '-to'. Using the previous example of extracting from 4 seconds to 10 seconds, the ffmpeg command would be `ffmpeg -ss 4 -i input.mp4 -t 6 output.mp4`, or, using ffmpeg\_python: `ffmpeg.input('input.mp4', ss=4).output('output.mp4', t=6)`

An issue I haven't yet resolved is that I would ideally like to be able to provide multiple urls and/or files in each command, with a corresponding '-c' option with clip specifier list for each. With the click (command-line interface creation kit) library I am using for this project, I have not yet found an easy way to designate an option as a sub-option to another, so I suspect the easiest way to incorporate this functionality may be to make URLs and local files specified by one option, with some kind of detection to differentiate the two. Since click adds each item provided by a multiple-use-enabled option to a list associated with that specific option, I could have option -s/--source and option -c/--clip, and extract clips specified in clip[0] from the source file specified by source[0], and so on for the remaining entries in each of these lists.

To other students building a script like mine in that in makes use of another, much more complicated Python application, I would definitely recommend taking a look at that application's code to see what functions there are to take advantage of.

I enjoyed pretty much every part of this project. One thing in particular that I enjoyed was digging through the youtube-dl code to figure out what functions I could to take advantage of when I needed to re-run certain parts of of its default process.

The part of this project that challenged me most was probably figuring out how to keep track of my output files, both from youtube-dl and ffmpeg.
